OUTDATED AS OF 2013-05-28This is a tutorial for adding a 4dir sprite to the game. (so, a sprite withfour facings that correspond to cardinal directions, from a spritesheet)1. Prepare the spritesheet. It should be PNG format, with transparency. (Thereis no "transparent color" like in RM). Frame size and placement don't matter,but each frame should be consecutive. Like if you have a 64*64 frame size andstart an animation strip at (0, 0) the first frame must be at (0, 0), secondframe at (0, 64), third at (0, 128) etc.2. Place the spritesheet in the game/res/sprites directory. Try to give it adescriptive filename.3. Fire up the database editor, we're going to need a couple new entries.4. First is the animation strip, one for each facing. Create the first one andname it something like "anim_<charaname>_<whatheyredoing>_up" or something elsedescriptive. For consistency's sake it should start with anim. If this is acharacter you're making, use the "charas/" subdirectory, otherwise use somethingelse. It should be postfixed with the direction of the movement. Let's use upfor now.5. The MDO itself. Select your spritesheet file. Repeat should be true if theanimation will play as a walk cycle. Frame width and height are the size ofeach individual frame of the animation. Animation speed is FPS; for referenceTalyssa walks at 8 FPS. The next fields are where the animation begins withinthe spritesheet. This is the upper left corner of the first frame, just mouseover it in paint to pick up the coords. If it's the only thing in the sheet thestart is at (0, 0). The rest of the fields are hitbox data. The hitboxupper left and upper right you can get from paint just mousing over where thehitbox should begin and entering those coords. Note that these are relative tothe upper left of the hitbox frame. So if your frame began at (64, 64) and thehitbox coordinates in the spritesheet, in paint, are (70, 80) then you shouldenter 6 for upper left x and 16 for upper left y. Repeat for bottom right.6. This needs to be repeated for each direction. Clone this animation byclicking on the MDO entry in the left bar and then selecting Clone from theedit menu. That should open the make MDO dialog. Remember to use the namingconvention "anim_<charaname>_<whatheyredoing>_<dir>". Change dir to the nextdirection. Use the same subfolder as before. You should only need to change thestart of the animation, the Offset X and Offset Y fields. For instance if thefirst direction was at (0, 0) and you have an animation that's 64 pixels belowthat animation, use (0, 64). Adjust the hitbox if necessary. Repeat for alldirections of the sprite.7. That wraps up the animation MDOs. Now the 4dir MDO. This is also in thegraphics folder and it should be pretty self-explanatory to make. Name itsomething like "4dir_<charaname>_<whattheyredoing>", and drop it in the charassubfolder if it's a character. Fill in the fields with animations you justcreated.NOTE: you can quit at this point, if you want to test just set the hero to looklike whatever you just created8. If you want to see the character in-game, make a new event for them. This isdone with a CharacterEventMDO, under characters. Name it something like"chara_<whatever>". All of these fields should be pretty obvious, just selectNone for the character if it has no separate idle animation.9. Add the character to a map. Boot up Tiled. Add a new object to an event layerthat spans one tile. Edit its properties by rclicking it. Change "Type" to"event" and then give it the property "key" with the value "chara_<whatever>"before, the character MDO key. Now you should be able to see that character onthe map. If you want it to pace, give it the property "pace" with no value.If you want to see it face a direction, give it the property "face" with value"up" "down" "left" "right".